src/app/README.md, before:

# mORMot Application and (Micro)Services Units

## Folder Content

This folder holds the (Micro)Services/Daemons and Applications related features of the *mORMot* Open Source framework, version 2.

## (Micro)Services and Daemons

*Daemons* are the POSIX way of creating background executables, which are called 
*Services* under Windows. Since "Service" is more tied to SOA in our framework, we rather use "Daemon" to refer such background executables, which can easily be implemented as cross-platform by those units.

*MicroServices* are a specific kind self-sufficent and uncoupled SOA servers. *mORMot* excels in implementing such services, as a stand-alone and self-configuring daemons. In particular, SOA endpoints can be implemented via interface-based services, and *SQLite3* local database(s) could be used for local persistence.

## Units Presentation

### mormot.app.console

Some Features Dedicated to Console Apps
- `ICommandLine` for Parsing Command Line Arguments

### mormot.app.daemon

Daemon (e.g. Windows Service) Stand-Alone Background Executable Support
- Parent Daemon Settings Class
- Parent Daemon Application Class

### mormot.app.agl

Daemon (e.g. Windows Service) Stand-Alone Background Executable Support
- `TSynAngelize` App-As-Service Launcher

Commit message:

work on TSynAngelize - background exec & wait of an executable with "start" and "stop" commands - console output redirection to a log file with optional rotation - "https://xxx" action in addition to "http://xxx" - some fixes and enhancements

src/app/README.md, after:

# mORMot Application and (Micro)Services Units

## Folder Content

This folder holds the (Micro)Services/Daemons and Applications related features of the *mORMot* Open Source framework, version 2.

## (Micro)Services and Daemons

*Daemons* are the POSIX way of creating background executables, which are called 
*Services* under Windows. Since "Service" is more tied to SOA in our framework, we rather use "Daemon" to refer such background executables, which can easily be implemented as cross-platform by those units.

*MicroServices* are a specific kind self-sufficent and uncoupled SOA servers. *mORMot* excels in implementing such services, as a stand-alone and self-configuring daemons. In particular, SOA endpoints can be implemented via interface-based services, and *SQLite3* local database(s) could be used for local persistence.

## Units Presentation

### mormot.app.console

Some Features Dedicated to Console Apps
- `ICommandLine` for Parsing Command Line Arguments

### mormot.app.daemon

Daemon (e.g. Windows Service) Stand-Alone Background Executable Support
- Parent Daemon Settings Class
- Parent Daemon Application Class

### mormot.app.agl

Launch, Watch and Kill Services or Executables from a main Service Instance
- `TSynAngelizeService` Sub-Service Settings and Process
- `TSynAngelize` Main Service Launcher and Watcher
